~Sparking Studio Made by HiroTex~

The first you should do is install an AFL list for your AFS.
Many AFL Lists are available in the "AFL List" folder for all versions of the Sparking! / Budokai Tenkaichi series.
The folder contains a patch to rename the files with the actual official filenames recreated with their original extensions.
All versions are supported by Sparking Studio, since it needs to reed some filenames to work properly with some files.

- How to Install AFL Lists -
To install them, use AFS Explorer, open the AFS, go to "Advanced" and select "Import File Name List", then select the
appropriate AFL for your version and AFS.

Content:
	1. How to Open Files
		a. How to Open a File
		b. What Files are Supported
	2. How to Save Files
		a. How to make a Quick Save
		b. How to Save a New File
	3. How to Unpack Files
		a. How to Unpack a Single File
		b. How to Unpack many Files at once
	4. How to Package Folders
		a. How to Package a Single Folder
		b. How to Package many Folders at once
	5. How to Uncompress Files
		a. How to Unompress a Single File
		b. How to Unompress many Files at once
	6. How to Compress Files
		a. How to Compress a Single File
		b. How to Compress many Files at once
	7. DBT Editor
		a. How to Export Images to PNG
		b. How to Export Images to Indexed BMPs
		c. How to Import an Image over another
		d. How to Delete an Image
		e. How to Add a New Image
		f. About cdbt files
		g. How to Delete single Palettes or Shadings
	8. Model Editor
		a. How to Open a Character Model File
		b. About the Header Editor
		c. About the "PMDL 3D Parts" Zone
		d. About the "PMDL 3D Part Data" Zone
		e. About the "Mesh" Zone
		f. About the "Skirt Mesh" Zone
		g. About the "Convert to Obj" Zone
		h. About the Map's 3D Model Data
		i. About the Map's Import File Option
	9. VAG Audio Editor
		a. How to open a VAG Sound Container
		b. How to Change the Sampling Frequency of a Vag Audio
		c. How to Export a Vag Audio to a File.
		d. How to Export all Vag Audios from the File to a Folder
		e. How to Import a Vag Audio to the VAG Container
		f. How to Import all audios from a folder into the VAG Container.
	10. About the Settings Menu
		a. How to change the Settings
		


1.a How to Open a File
	To open a File, click the "File" button and select the "Open..." option, 
	you can Drag & Drop the file in the program too, or open Sparking Studio by double clicking your file
	and selecting Sparking Studio as its default Program.
	The file you want to edit may need to be Unpacked first, see section 3 for Unpacking Files.
	
1.b What Files are Supported
	As of this buiild, the following files are supported:
	.anm Files = Animation files can be opened to fix the animation selected Height or an Effect's height position.
	.snd Files = The 01_header_data.snd from inside the Character_Voice.pak file can be opened to manage the vag audios.
	.dbt Files = "Image container" files of the Sparking Series.
	.dat Files = Data Files that contain Binary parameters. Note: Only certain dat files can be opened with the tool.
	.mdl Files = Model container Files. The Character's Model file, Extra Faces files, and the Map's main data model file can be opened.
	.afl Files = AFS Name List Files. Just a Text Editor. Names of files must not surpass 31 characters.
	.canm Files = Same as .anm files but compressed.
	.cdbt Files = Compressed "Image container" files of the Sparking Series. You don't have to decompress or compress them manually anymore.
	
	The '.dat' files supported are the next ones:

	Character Files:
	- 017_character_param.dat
	- 018_character_melee_param.dat
	- 019_character_ki_blast_param.dat
	- 020_character_movement_param.dat
	- 021_character_voice_speaker.dat
	- 023_character_blast_2_param.dat
	- 024_character_blast_1_param.dat
	- 027_character_cameras.dat
	
	General Menu FIles:
	- XX_z_item_param.dat
	- XX_chara_order.dat
	- XX_maps_order.dat
	- XX_songs_order.dat
	
	resident_battle_param:
	- 007_common_character_param.dat

	resident_chara_param:
	- 00_chara_param.dat

	01_ultimate_missions:
	- 09_mission_param.dat
	- 10_mission_opponent_param.dat
	- 11_survivor_param.dat
	- 12_survivor_opponent_param.dat

	Ultimate_Ranking:
	- 07_rank_param.dat
	- 08_rank_challenge_param.dat
	- 09_rank_opponent_param.dat
	- 10_rank_opponent_challenge_param.dat

	Ultimate_Circuit:
	- 07_circuit_param.dat
	- 08_circuit_opponent_param.dat

	Ultimte_Sim:
	- 24_sim_param.dat
	- 25_sim_opponent_param.dat

	WorldTour:
	- 30_opponent_param.dat
	- 40_unlock_item_param.dat

	00_char_ref_main:
	- 25_chichi_comment_id_param.dat
	- 26_chichi_comment_anim.dat
	- 27_chichi_comment_slot_param.dat

	Budokai Tenkaichi 2
	- progress_chara_param.dat
	
	
2.a How to Make a Quick Save
	After you have opened a File, select the "disk" icon below the "File" option to overwrite 
	the original file opened and save the changes you have made.
	
2.b How to Save a New File
	After you have opened a File, if you want to keep a Backup of the original file, click the 
	"File" button and select the "Save As..." option to create a new File and save the changes. 
	The subsequent changes that you make to the file will be saved in the new File with the 
	"Quick Save" option.
	
3.a How to Unpack a Single File
	To Unpack a File, click on the "Packing" Button and select the "Unpack" option, then select 
	the ".pak" or ".cpak" file that you want to unpack. A new Folder with the content of the 
	file will be created next to it.

3.b How to Unpack many Files at once
	To Unpack multiple files you have to click on the "Packing" button and select the 
	"Unpack All Files" option (all of your ".pak" or ".cpak" Files have to be together 
	in a folder), then select the folder where all of your .pak or .cpak files are. 
	You will get a confirmation message after all of them are unpacked.
	
4.a How to Package a Single Folder
	To Pack a Folder, click on the "Packing" Button and select the "Make Pak" option, 
	then select the "type.hep" file inside the folder that you want to package again. 
	This will create or overwrite a file with the same name of the folder next to the 
	selected folder.

4.b How to Package many Folders at once
	To Package multiple folders you have to click on the "Packing" button and select 
	the "Package All Folders" option (all of your Folders have to be together in a folder, 
	and all of them must contain a "type.hep" file), then select the folder where all of 
	your folders are. You will get a confirmation message when the process has finished
	
5.a How to Decompress a Single File
	To Decompress a File, click on the "Encryption" Button and select the "Decompress" 
	option, then select the ".cpak"/".cdbt"/".canm" file that you want to Decompress. 
	A new File with the uncompressed content of the file will be created next to it 
	with the correct uncompressed extension.

5.b How to Decompress many Files at once
	To Decompress multiple files you have to click on the "Encryption" button and select 
	the "Decompress All Files" option (all of your ".cpak"/".cdbt"/".canm" Files have to 
	be together in a folder), then select the folder where all of your compressed files 
	are. You will get a confirmation message when the process has finished.
	
6.a How to Compress a Single File
	To Compress a File, click on the "Encryption" Button and select the "Compress" option, 
	then select the ".pak"/".dbt"/".anm" file that you want to Compress. A new File with 
	the compressed content of the file will be created next to it with the correct 
	compressed extension.

6.b How to Compress many Files at once
	To Compress multiple files you have to click on the "Encryption" button and select the 
	"Compress All Files" option (all of your ".pak"/".dbt"/".anm" Files have to be together
	 in a folder), then select the folder where all of your uncompressed files are. You 
	 will get a confirmation message when the process has finished.
	
7. About the DBT Editor
	The "DBT Editor" is the Image editor for ".dbt" or ".cdbt" files. It has support for 
	viewing, exporting and importing images to all kind of dbt files, incluiding BT1, 
	BT2 and BT3 files. The "map_main_data.mdl" File from the Maps is supported too, 
	but some features are not available.
	
7.a How to Export Images to PNG
	To Export PNG Images from a dbt file first open the File, when the editor has loaded 
	click the "Export All (.png)" option. This will create a folder next to the file with 
	the same name with all of the images in PNG format.
	
7.b How to Export Images to Indexed BMP
	To Export indexed BMP Images from a dbt file first open the File, when the editor has 
	loaded click the "Export All (.bmp)" option. This will create a folder next to the file 
	with the same name with all of the images in a indexed BMP format.
	
7.c How to Import an image over another
	To do this you need the software "PNGOo", a program for indexing png images. First, 
	open your dbt file, and then select the image that you want to replace. Click on the 
	"Import Img" button and select your Indexed PNG image or BMP image.
	If the image is not indexed, or was not indexed to the correct amount of colors, or the 
	dimensions does not match, the tool will tell you with a message.
	If PNGOo doesn't index the file to the right amount of colours, you will have to index it 
	with the option "Export for Web" from Photoshop and make sure that the options are "PNG-8" 
	and the palette list is filled with the amount of colours that the image should 
	have (16 colors or 256 colors).
	
7.d How to Delete an image
	To delete an image select it from the list of images and click the "Delete Img" button.
	
7.e How to Add a New Image
	To do this you need the software "PNGOo", a program for indexing png images. First,
	open your dbt file, and then select the last image of the file, before the "Shadings".
	Click on the "Add a New Image Below" button and select your Indexed PNG image or BMP image.
	If the image is not indexed, the tool will tell you with a message.
	
7.f About cdbt files
	The Latest version of Sparking Studio supports cdbt files to be opened like dbt files, 
	you don't have to manually decompress them for loading them or compress them after 
	saving it, the Sparking Studio will automatically decompress and compress them "on the fly".
	
7.g How to delete single palletes or Shadings
	The Latest version of Sparking Studio can delete single palettes or Shadings by using 
	the "Delete Palette" button. Just select the palette that you want to delete and click 
	the button.
	
8.a How to Open a Character Model File
	To open a character's model, you have to unpack the .pak file of the character you want, 
	then, open the "002_character_model.mdl" file.
	The Model Editor has 9 Zones:
	- Header Editor = An editor for some header values.
	- Bone List = The main model part selector.
	- PMDL 3D Parts  = Buttons to manage the selected model in Bone List.
	- PMDL 3D Part Data = Data of the selected model in Bone LIst.
	- Mesh List = A Selector of the various meshes that composes the model part selected.
	- Mesh = Various buttons to manage the Mesh List.
	- External Format = Various buttons to manage the model in "ascii (XPS/XNALara)", "obj", and "dae" format.
	- Skirt Meshes = List of Meshes of the special Skirt model part.
	- Skirt Mesh = Various Buttons to manage the special Skirt model part.
	
8.b About the Header Editor
	The Model's Header contains some data to know about:
	- Bone Amount = This Value is the amount of body parts or bones that the model has. 
	It NEEDS to be exact to edit the model properly. If your model doesn't have a correct 
	bone amount the Tool might tell you, but you have to make sure that the "UTILITY" Bone 
	is the last one on the Bone List, that's the game's standard.
	- Offset Skirt Index = This Value is automatically fixed each time that a difference is 
	made to the model size and the Skirt Model gets moved, so don't worry about it. If your 
	model has a weird Offset Skirt and want to fix it, just delete the Skirt Model and 
	Reimport it and the Tool will do it automatically for you.
	- Camera Distance = Values to set the camera position between the player and the 
	character model.
	- Dynamic Shader Enabled = If the character has a dynamic shader like the Super Saiyan ones.
	- Reflection Surfaces Enabled = The Character has reflection surfaces like Baby Vegeta's Jeans 
	or Frieza's head.
	- Header Texture Settings = The amounts of Textures, Palettes, Shadings, and Reflective Textures 
	that the character should have plus the ALPHA texture used.
	
8.c About the "PMDL 3D Parts" Zone
	- Export Selected (.mdl) = Saves the selected part in the "Bone List" to a single .mdl file.
	- Export All Parts (.mdl) = Saves all model parts to single .mdl files in a subfolder.
	- Export Bone (.bne) = Saves the Bone Data of the Selected Model of the "Bone List" to a single .bne file.
	- Export All Bones (.bne) = Saves all the bone data of each model part in a subfolder.
	- Import Over (.mdl) = Select a .mdl File to import over the selected model part in "Bone List".
	- Import Over (.bne) = Select a .bne File to import over the selected model part in "Bone List".
	- Add New Model Below = Select a .mdl file to add below the selected model part in "Bone List".
	- Delete Selected = Deletes the selected model part in "Bone List".
	
8.d About the "PMDL 3D Part Data" Zone
	- ID = The Hex ID of the model part selected in "Bone List". It's relative to the Bone.
	- Union Value = It makes the chain of Bones used for animations.
	- Reflection = If the Model part selected is able to have reflective surfaces.
	- Flip Selected = The model part selected gets mirrored. If the Model is a left arm it becomes a right arm, for example.

8.e About the "Mesh" Zone
	- Export Selected (.msh) = Exports all the marked Meshes in the "Mesh List" zone to a subfolder.
	- Add All Meshes (.msh) = Select a folder that contains all of the .msh files that you want to add to the model part.
	- Delete Mesh Selected = Deletes all the marked meshes in "Mesh List".
	- Invert Selection = It inverts the marked items in the "Mesh List".
	- Obj to Mesh = Special feature to support Ruisu's Method to make Model Parts in Blender.
	- Texture ID = Texture ID of the selected Mesh in "Mesh List".
	- Shader ID = Shader ID of the selected Mesh in "Mesh List"
	- Apply to Selected = It applies the current ID in the relative ID Box to all the marked meshes in "Mesh List".
	- Apply to All Meshes = It applies the current ID in the relative ID Box to all the meshes in the model part.
	- Reflective Surface = It sets the mesh selected in "Mesh List" to be able to use reflective textures.
	
8.f About the "Skirt Mesh" Zone
	- Export Skirt (.mdl) = Saves the Special Skirt Model to a single .mdl file.
	- Export to Obj (.obj) = Saves the Special Skirt Model to a obj file.
	- Add Skirt (.mdl) = Select a Skirt Model to add it to the model. 
	It's not available if the current model already has a Skirt Model.
	- Import Skirt (.obj) = Select the modifyied obj file of a Skirt Model that 
	belongs to the skirt in the character to import it over the current Skirt Model.
	- Delete Skirt Model = It deletes the entire Skirt Model that the character has. 
	It's not available if the character doesn't have a Skirt Model.
	- Texture ID = Texture ID of the selected Mesh in "Skirt Meshes" List.
	- Shader ID = Shader ID of the selected Mesh in  "Skirt Meshes" List.
	- Apply to All Meshes = It applies the current ID in the relative ID Box to all 
	the meshes in the Skirt Meshes List.
	
8.g About the "Convert to Obj" Zone
	- Export Complete (.obj) = Exports a single .obj file with the complete model 
	to "My Documents" under a new folder named "OBJ Models". 
	The Model can be split by object to see all of the individual mesh parts, 
	or Split by Group to see each Model Part separated.
	To Open a Obj file in Blender you have to go to "File" then "Import" and select 
	"Wavefront (obj)". 
	The options to import the obj with only the model parts are:
		- Split by Object [Unchecked]
		- Split by Group [Checked]
	Nothing else has to be done with this option.
	
	The options to import the obj and see the Meshes are:
		- Lines [Unchecked]
		- Split by Object [Checked]
		- Split by Group [Checked]
	
	- Export Selected (.obj) = Exports a single .obj file of the selected model part in "Bone List". 
	The Model can be split by object to see all of the individual mesh parts, or Split by Group 
	to only see the model part and his Bone Data.
	- Export All Split (.obj) = Exports all the model parts in "Bone List" to individual .obj 
	files in a subfolder.
	- Import Complete (.obj) = Select the complete .obj file of the entire model to update 
	all the model parts.The obj file can't have more or less vertex that the original part 
	and needs to be saved with the next options checked:
		- Split by Group/Split by Object (The one used when importing the model on Blender)
		- Write Normals
		- Include UVs
		- Write Materials
		- Keep Vertex Order
	- Import Over (.obj) = Select the edited .obj file of the model part selected in "Bone List" 
	to import it over. 
	- Export Weights (.dsw) = You can export the weight data of the model part selected in 
	"Bone List" to a .dsw file that you can use with Blender 2.8x versions to import it to
	the model and edit it. To Import the dsw data into a model in Blender, import the model 
	with the "Split by Group" option, select only the model part (without the bone), go to 
	Vertex Options and click the "+" Button to add a Vertex Group, then import the dsw file.
	- Import Weights (.dsw) = Select the edited .dsw file with the weight data of the model 
	part selected in "Bone List".
	- Export Complete Weights (.dsw) = You can export the weight data for the entire model 
	to a .dsw file. To use it with the "Export Complete (.obj) function, you don't have to 
	split the model at all, keep it in one single part and import the .dsw file to see the 
	entire weight data applied to the model. It's only meant to be used for testing and 
	verification processes.
	
8.h About the Map's 3D Model Data
	To Export a Map's 3D Model, you have to open the first file of an 
	Unpacked map (00_map_main_data.mdl) and use the "Export Model (.obj)" button to export 
	the model to "My Documents" under a new folder named "OBJ Models". Import it 
	in Blender with only the option "Split by Group" selected. To save it, save it 
	with the next options checked:
		- Split by Group
		- Apply Modifiers
		- Write Normals
		- Include UVs
		- Keep Vertex Order
	To Import a modified map's 3D Model, use the "Import Model (.obj)" button.
	
	NOTE: If you can't see all of the map's model, in version 2.8x and later press "n", 
	select "view" and increase the "Clip End" parameter to 1.000.000m or more if needed.

8.i About the Map's Import File Option
	The new Map's "Import File" Replaces a Sub Section of the Opened Map File with a pre-made
	sub section file made by the user and fixes all of the Index Data after that file.
	It only fixes Map_main_data files that applies the usual structure standards.
	The name of the file has to have the Sub Section ID on the name of the file, for ex:
	"06_Rendering.bin" any extension works.
	List of IDs:
	00 - Sprite Animation Table
	01 - Debris Animation Table
	02 - Model Data Table
	03 - RAM Section
	04 - POV Rendering Table
	05 - DBT Section
	06 - Main Rendering Section
	07 - Collision Data Table
	08 - Debris Data Table Section
	
9.a How to open a VAG Sound Container
	First you have to Unpack the pak file that contains the VAG Audios, 
	then you have to go to "File" then "Open" and select the "01_header_data.snd" file.
	If it is an Character_Voice.pak/Character_VAG.pak file, it will detect it and 
	name all the audios in the list.
	
9.b How to Change the Sampling Frequency of a Vag Audio
	Just select the audio you want to change his sampling frequency and change the 
	value in the Box under "Audio Settings and Utilities".

9.c How to Export a Vag Audio to a File.
	Select the audio in the list and click the "Export" Button.
	
9.d How to Export all audios to a folder
	Click the "Export All" Button.
	
9.e How to Import a Vag Audio to the VAG Container
	Select the Audio you want to replace and click the "Import" Button. 
	The new Audio has to have the "Vagp Header", it will import the Frequency 
	data that it has and it will be deleted automatically, and has to have the 
	end flag (XX XX 77 77 77...), it will not be added automatically because it 
	can be a compressed or uncompressed ADPCM data (07 00 for uncompressed ADPCM 
	and 00 07 for compressed ADPCM) and the tool can not automatically detect that.
	
9.f How to Import all audios from a folder into the VAG Container.
	Click on the "Import All" button and select the folder containing all the .vag audios.
	The audios on the folder NEEDS to be named after the slot it will replace, 
	starting from 0, for example "0.vag, 1.vag, 5.vag, 7.vag. 013.vag", etc.
	The audios needs to have the Vagp Header with the Frequency data and the end flag. 
	The Vagp header will be automatically deleted.

10.a How to Change the Settings
	In the "File" option, you can access the "Settings" Menu now, there you will find
	many new settings to mess with and they will be saved for your personal preferences.

	The "Engine Mode" Settings let you change the Engine to "Little Endian" or "Big Endian"
	to properly Unpack and repack Wii and PS2 Files. The Raging Blast option it's work 
	in progress.

	The "Assets" Settings change the images and names used in the program, which you can 
	fully customize to your liking in the "resource\txt" and "resource\images" folders. 
	Be careful, as this is needed for some editors to work as intended!

	Finally, the "Delete File at Unpack" like its name says lets you delete files 
	automatically when you Unpack any file.